Roy Bean, sung by Brownie MacNeil, December 2nd, 1939.
Cowboys come and hear the story of Roy Bean in all his glory.
All the lowest of the Pecos was his sign.
We must let our ponies take us to a town in Lower Pecos, where the high bridge bends the canyon thin and fine.
He was born one day near Toya where he learned to be a lawyer and a teacher and a barber and a mayor.
He was cook and old shoe mender, sometimes preacher and bartender and it cost two bits to have him cut your hair.
He was right smart of a hustler and considerable a rustler and at mixing up an eggnog he was grand.
He was clever, he was merry He could drink a tom and jerry On occasion that a round-up took a hand.
Though the story isn't funny There was once he had no money Which was for him not so very strange or rare. So he went to help Pap winded But he got so absent-minded That he put his RV brand on old Pap's dear.
Old Pep was right smart, angry, so Roy Bean went down to Langtree where he opened up an office and a store.
There he'd say, you drink our buttons or another rancher's buttons, though the latter made the other fellers sore.
Once there came from Austin City a young dude reported witty who out of Bean he sort of guessed he'd take a rise.
And he got unusual frisky as he ups and calls for whiskey, saying, Bean, now hurry up, I'll earn your eyes.
Then the down he throws ten dollars, which this same Roy quickly collars, and for change he holds to nine and hands back one.
So the stranger give a holler as he saw that single dollar, and at that began the merriment and fun.
The dude, he slammed the table just as hard as he was able.
That the price of whiskey was too high, he swore.
Said, Roy Bean, for all that fussing and your most outrageous cussing, you are fined the other dollar by the law.